docs/root/configuration/listeners/stats.rst, before:

.. _config_listener_stats:

Statistics
==========

Listener
--------

Every listener has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.* with the following statistics:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections
   downstream_cx_destroy, Counter, Total destroyed connections
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections
   downstream_cx_length_ms, Histogram, Connection length milliseconds
   downstream_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of listener connection limit
   downstream_cx_overload_reject, Counter, Total connections rejected due to configured overload actions
   downstream_pre_cx_timeout, Counter, Sockets that timed out during listener filter processing
   downstream_pre_cx_active, Gauge, Sockets currently undergoing listener filter processing
   global_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of the global connection limit
   no_filter_chain_match, Counter, Total connections that didn't match any filter chain

.. _config_listener_stats_tls:

TLS statistics
--------------

The following TLS statistics are rooted at *listener.<address>.ssl.*:

.. include:: ../../_include/ssl_stats.rst

.. _config_listener_stats_udp:

UDP statistics
--------------

The following UDP statistics are available for UDP listeners and are rooted at
*listener.<address>.udp.*:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_rx_datagram_dropped, Counter, Number of datagrams dropped due to kernel overflow or truncation

.. _config_listener_stats_per_handler:

Per-handler Listener Stats
--------------------------

Every listener additionally has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.<handler>.* which
contains *per-handler* statistics. As described in the
:ref:`threading model <arch_overview_threading>` documentation, Envoy has a threading model which
includes the *main thread* as well as a number of *worker threads* which are controlled by the
:option:`--concurrency` option. Along these lines, *<handler>* is equal to *main_thread*,
*worker_0*, *worker_1*, etc. These statistics can be used to look for per-handler/worker imbalance
on either accepted or active connections.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections on this handler.
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections on this handler.

   .. _config_listener_manager_stats:

Listener manager
----------------

The listener manager has a statistics tree rooted at *listener_manager.* with the following
statistics. Any ``:`` character in the stats name is replaced with ``_``.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   listener_added, Counter, Total listeners added (either via static config or LDS).
   listener_modified, Counter, Total listeners modified (via LDS).
   listener_removed, Counter, Total listeners removed (via LDS).
   listener_stopped, Counter, Total listeners stopped.
   listener_create_success, Counter, Total listener objects successfully added to workers.
   listener_create_failure, Counter, Total failed listener object additions to workers.
   listener_in_place_updated, Counter, Total listener objects created to execute filter chain update path.
   total_filter_chains_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining filter chains.
   total_listeners_warming, Gauge, Number of currently warming listeners.
   total_listeners_active, Gauge, Number of currently active listeners.
   total_listeners_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining listeners.
   workers_started, Gauge, A boolean (1 if started and 0 otherwise) that indicates whether listeners have been initialized on workers.

Commit message:

listener: add optional stat_prefix to use instead of listener address (#15951)
Signed-off-by: Greg Greenway <ggreenway@apple.com>

docs/root/configuration/listeners/stats.rst, after:

.. _config_listener_stats:

Statistics
==========

Listener
--------

Every listener has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.* (or *listener.<stat_prefix>.* if
:ref:`stat_prefix <envoy_v3_api_field_config.listener.v3.Listener.stat_prefix>` is non-empty)
with the following statistics:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections
   downstream_cx_destroy, Counter, Total destroyed connections
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections
   downstream_cx_length_ms, Histogram, Connection length milliseconds
   downstream_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of listener connection limit
   downstream_cx_overload_reject, Counter, Total connections rejected due to configured overload actions
   downstream_pre_cx_timeout, Counter, Sockets that timed out during listener filter processing
   downstream_pre_cx_active, Gauge, Sockets currently undergoing listener filter processing
   global_cx_overflow, Counter, Total connections rejected due to enforcement of the global connection limit
   no_filter_chain_match, Counter, Total connections that didn't match any filter chain

.. _config_listener_stats_tls:

TLS statistics
--------------

The following TLS statistics are rooted at *listener.<address>.ssl.*:

.. include:: ../../_include/ssl_stats.rst

.. _config_listener_stats_udp:

UDP statistics
--------------

The following UDP statistics are available for UDP listeners and are rooted at
*listener.<address>.udp.*:

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_rx_datagram_dropped, Counter, Number of datagrams dropped due to kernel overflow or truncation

.. _config_listener_stats_per_handler:

Per-handler Listener Stats
--------------------------

Every listener additionally has a statistics tree rooted at *listener.<address>.<handler>.* which
contains *per-handler* statistics. As described in the
:ref:`threading model <arch_overview_threading>` documentation, Envoy has a threading model which
includes the *main thread* as well as a number of *worker threads* which are controlled by the
:option:`--concurrency` option. Along these lines, *<handler>* is equal to *main_thread*,
*worker_0*, *worker_1*, etc. These statistics can be used to look for per-handler/worker imbalance
on either accepted or active connections.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total connections on this handler.
   downstream_cx_active, Gauge, Total active connections on this handler.

   .. _config_listener_manager_stats:

Listener manager
----------------

The listener manager has a statistics tree rooted at *listener_manager.* with the following
statistics. Any ``:`` character in the stats name is replaced with ``_``.

.. csv-table::
   :header: Name, Type, Description
   :widths: 1, 1, 2

   listener_added, Counter, Total listeners added (either via static config or LDS).
   listener_modified, Counter, Total listeners modified (via LDS).
   listener_removed, Counter, Total listeners removed (via LDS).
   listener_stopped, Counter, Total listeners stopped.
   listener_create_success, Counter, Total listener objects successfully added to workers.
   listener_create_failure, Counter, Total failed listener object additions to workers.
   listener_in_place_updated, Counter, Total listener objects created to execute filter chain update path.
   total_filter_chains_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining filter chains.
   total_listeners_warming, Gauge, Number of currently warming listeners.
   total_listeners_active, Gauge, Number of currently active listeners.
   total_listeners_draining, Gauge, Number of currently draining listeners.
   workers_started, Gauge, A boolean (1 if started and 0 otherwise) that indicates whether listeners have been initialized on workers.
