docs/root/configuration/other_protocols/thrift_filters/router_filter.rst, before:

.. _config_thrift_filters_router:

Router
======

The router filter implements Thrift forwarding. It will be used in almost all Thrift proxying
scenarios. The filter's main job is to follow the instructions specified in the configured
:ref:`route table <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.network.thrift_proxy.v3.RouteConfiguration>`.

* :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.network.thrift_proxy.router.v3.Router>`
* This filter should be configured with the name *envoy.filters.thrift.router*.

Statistics
----------

The filter outputs generic routing error statistics in the *thrift.<stat_prefix>.* namespace.

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  route_missing, Counter, Total requests with no route found.
  unknown_cluster, Counter, Total requests with a route that has an unknown cluster.
  upstream_rq_maintenance_mode, Counter, Total requests with a destination cluster in maintenance mode.
  no_healthy_upstream, Counter, Total requests with no healthy upstream endpoints available.


The filter also outputs MessageType statistics in the upstream cluster's stat scope.

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  request_call, Counter, Total requests with the "Call" message type.
  request_oneway, Counter, Total requests with the "Oneway" message type.
  request_invalid_type, Counter, Total requests with an unsupported message type.
  response_reply, Counter, Total responses with the "Reply" message type. Includes both successes and errors.
  response_exception, Counter, Total responses with the "Exception" message type.
  response_invalid_type, Counter, Total responses with an unsupported message type.

Commit message:

thrift proxy: add upstream_rq_time histograms to cluster metrics (#15884)
In #15668 we began supporting cluster level metrics for the thrift_proxy connection manager. These metrics were limited to messageType counters only; now that these are working OK we are comfortable moving to cluster level histograms for upstream_rq_time.

Risk Level: Low
Testing: New unit tests
Docs Changes: future pr
Release Notes: updated
Signed-off-by: William Fu <wfu@pinterest.com>

docs/root/configuration/other_protocols/thrift_filters/router_filter.rst, after:

.. _config_thrift_filters_router:

Router
======

The router filter implements Thrift forwarding. It will be used in almost all Thrift proxying
scenarios. The filter's main job is to follow the instructions specified in the configured
:ref:`route table <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.network.thrift_proxy.v3.RouteConfiguration>`.

* :ref:`v3 API reference <envoy_v3_api_msg_extensions.filters.network.thrift_proxy.router.v3.Router>`
* This filter should be configured with the name *envoy.filters.thrift.router*.

Statistics
----------

The filter outputs generic routing error statistics in the *thrift.<stat_prefix>.* namespace.

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  route_missing, Counter, Total requests with no route found.
  unknown_cluster, Counter, Total requests with a route that has an unknown cluster.
  upstream_rq_maintenance_mode, Counter, Total requests with a destination cluster in maintenance mode.
  no_healthy_upstream, Counter, Total requests with no healthy upstream endpoints available.


The filter is also responsible for cluster-level statistics derived from routed upstream clusters.
Since these stats utilize the underlying cluster scope, we prefix with the `thrift` namespace.

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  thrift.upstream_rq_call, Counter, Total requests with the "Call" message type.
  thrift.upstream_rq_oneway, Counter, Total requests with the "Oneway" message type.
  thrift.upstream_rq_invalid_type, Counter, Total requests with an unsupported message type.
  thrift.upstream_resp_reply, Counter, Total responses with the "Reply" message type. Sums both Successses and Errors.
  thrift.upstream_resp_success, Counter, Total Replies that are considered "Successes".
  thrift.upstream_resp_error, Counter, Total Replies that are considered "Errors".
  thrift.upstream_resp_exception, Counter, Total responses with the "Exception" message type.
  thrift.upstream_resp_invalid_type, Counter, Total responses with an unsupported message type.
  thrift.upstream_rq_time, Histogram, total rq time from rq complete to resp complete; includes oneway messages.
